.\" @(#)bcfg.1 05/06/14
.\" Copyright 2019 Actian Corporation
.\" All Rights Reserved Worldwide
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH bcfg 1 "2019"
.SH NAME
bcfg \- Interactive configuration utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbcfg\fR -I \fIinputfile\fR [-S \fIserver\fR] [-U \fIusername\fR] [-P \fIpassword\fR] [-E]
.P
\fBor\fR
.P
\fBbcfg\fR -O \fIoutputfile\fR [-S \fIserver\fR] [-U \fIusername\fR] [-P \fIpassword\fR] [-E]
.P
\fBor\fR
.P
\fBbcfg\fR \fIID\fR \fIvalue\fR [-S \fIserver\fR] [-U \fIusername\fR] [-P \fIpassword\fR]
.P
\fBor\fR
.P
\fBbcfg\fR -H <\fIkeyword\fR | "\fIkeyword with spaces\fR"> [-S \fIserver\fR] [-U \fIusername\fR] [-P \fIpassword\fR]

.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbcfg\fR 
is used from the command line to configure settings for a Zen Server or Client. You can configure one setting at a time or provide one or more settings in an input file.

.P
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 13
\fB-I\fR 
Required parameter if you provide an input file to the utility.  
.TP 13
\fIinputfile\fR 
A text file that contains one or more configuration setting records for a 
specified server and the value assigned to each setting.
A convenient way to create an input file is first to create an 
output file. You can then edit the setting values as required 
and use the edited version as an input file. 
.TP 13
\fB-O\fR 
Required parameter if you want the output results of running the utility sent to a text file.
.TP 13
\fIoutputfile\fR 
A text file that contains the current configuration settings for a specified 
server as a result of running the utility.
.TP 13
\fIID\fR 
A two or three digit integer that uniquely identifies the configuration setting. 
Some configuration settings require that you restart the database engines for 
the setting to take effect. Bcfg prompts you if a restart is required. 
.TP 13
\fIvalue\fR 
A value assigned to the configuration setting. The valid values are specified in 
a setting record in Options or Range. 
If Value is omitted, the utility returns the current setting. 
If Value is included, the utility changes the setting based on the value assignment.
.TP
\fB-H\fR 
The help search option for a keyword (that is, help for a keyword). The utility searches for configuration settings that contain the keyword and returns the ID and setting name, or returns no matches found.
.TP 13
\fIkeyword\fR 
The name of the configuration setting, such as ALLOW CLIENT-STORED CREDENTIALS or 
SUPPORTED PROTOCOLS. 
Note that keyword is case insensitive. However, if the keyword contains one or 
more spaces, you must double quote the string. 
The utility can provide help based on partial keywords. For example, if you 
specify -H client, the utility returns all setting with the word "client" as 
part of the setting name. If you specify -H a, the utility returns all settings 
with an "a" in the name.
.TP 13
\fB-S\fR 
Required parameter if the configuration settings apply to a remote server 
(a server other than the local one).
.TP 13
\fIserver\fR 
The name or IP address of the remote server that contains the database engine. 
.TP 13
\fB-U\fR 
Required parameter if a user name is required to access \fIserver\fR. 
.TP 13
\fIusername\fR 
User name with which you will connect to \fIserver\fR. 
.TP 13
\fB-P\fR 
Required parameter if a password is required to access \fIserver\fR. 
.TP 13
\fIpassword\fR 
Password used with \fIusername\fR to connect to \fIserver\fR.  
.TP 13
\fB-E\fR 
Ignore errors when reading \fIinputfile\fR or writing to \fIoutputfile\fR.  

.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
.SS Configuring a Single Setting from the Command Line
.P
Suppose that you want to turn on a configuration setting having to do 
with reconnecting a client to the server in the event of a network outage. 
You are not certain about the name of the configuration setting. 
Complete the following steps.
.P
At a command prompt, type bcfg -H reconnect then press Enter. 
The utility reports all settings that contain the string "reconnect":
.P
ID               Setting Name
.P
-----------------------------
.P
29               Enable Auto Reconnect
.P
148              Enable Auto Reconnect
.P
149              Auto Reconnect Timeout
.P
Two of the settings, 29 and 148, look like what you want, but which is which?
.P
Type bcfg 29 then press Enter. 
The utility reports the following for setting ID 29:
.P
=====================
.P
ENABLE AUTO RECONNECT
.P
=====================
.P
ID: 29
.P
Value: Off
.P
Options: On     Off
.P
Default Value: Off
.P
Description: <Client setting> Specifies if the Client will attempt to reconnect to the Server in the event of a network outage. The reconnected Client will continue processing as if no errors were encountered.
The description tells your that this setting applies to a client and that the setting is currently "off."
.P
Type bcfg 29 and then press Enter.
.P
The utility informs you that system setting 29 has been updated.
.P
If you want to verify that the setting is now "on," type bcfg 29 then press Enter.
.P
The utility reports the following for setting ID 29:
.P
=====================
.P
ENABLE AUTO RECONNECT
.P
=====================
.P
ID: 29
.P
Value: On
.P
Options: On    Off
.P
Default Value: Off
.P
Description: <Client setting> Specifies if the Client will attempt to reconnect to the Server in the event of a network outage. The reconnected Client will continue processing as if no errors were encountered.
.P
Note that the value is now set to "on."
.P
.SS Editing an Input File
.P
An input file must contain at least one complete record for one setting. If you 
create an input file from an output file and want to remove configuration 
settings, ensure that the remaining settings are complete records. 
At a minimum, a complete record encompasses and ID and Value pair. 
However, to ensure clarity, it is recommended that you include the 
top line of the setting header through the description of the setting. For 
example, here is a suggested minimal record for Enable Auto Reconnect:
.P
=====================
.P
ENABLE AUTO RECONNECT
.P
=====================
.P
ID: 29
.P
Value: On
.P
Options: On    Off
.P
Default Value: Off
.P
Description: <Client setting> Specifies if the Client will attempt to reconnect 
to the Server in the event of a network outage. The reconnected Client 
will continue processing as if no errors were encountered. 
Other than limiting which setting records are included in 
the input file, the only other change allowed is to the Value 
assignments. The assignment can be whatever is specified by Options or by Range.
.SH SEE ALSO
\fIAdvanced Operations Guide\fR
for more information about the bcfg utility. 


