.\" @(#)bmon.1 05/06/14
.\" Copyright 2019 Actian Corporation
.\" All Rights Reserved Worldwide
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH bmon 1 "2019"
.SH NAME
bmon \- Interactive monitor utility.
.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBbmon\fR -f [\fIfilepath\fR]\fIconfig_file\fR [-runonce]
.SH DESCRIPTION
\fBbmon\fR 
allows you to monitor Zen activities on a server. It provides 
information that is useful for both database administration and 
application programming diagnostics. The utility can monitor the following:
.P
* Files
.P
* Users
.P
* Resource statistics
.P
* Communication statistics

.P
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 13
\fB-f\fR 
This is a required parameter to specify that a configuration file is 
providing input to the utility.
.TP 13
\fIfilepath\fR 
The path to the configuration file. If omitted, bmon 
checks the local directory for the configuration file.
.TP 13
\fIconfig_file\fR 
The name of the configuration file. The file name is of your choosing.
.TP 13
\fB-runonce\fR 
This is an optional parameter that instructs the utility to 
run once, then exit. The runonce parameter is particularly 
useful when bmon is used in a batch file.
.IP
If runonce is omitted, the utility executes 
the settings in the configuration file, then pauses for the duration 
of the refresh rate. During the pause, you can 
send the utility a valid keyboard key response as shown below. If 
the refresh rate is set to zero, the utility pauses indefinitely 
until it receives a valid keyboard key response. The \fBrefreshrate\fR setting 
in the configuration file specifies how many seconds to pause.
.IP
\fBKeyboard Key Response:\fR 
.IP
\fB“Q” (or “q”) + Enter\fR stops execution of the utility
.IP
\fB“R” (or “r”) + Enter\fR refreshes the monitoring (runs the utility again)
.IP
\fBRefresh Rate:\fR 
.IP
\fB0\fR (pause indefinitely)
.IP
\fBKeyboard Key Response:\fR 
.IP
\fB“Q” (or “q”) + Enter\fR stops execution of the utility
.IP
\fBRefresh Rate:\fR 
.IP
\fB> 0\fR (pause for value of seconds)

.SH SEE ALSO
\fIAdvanced Operations Guide\fR
for more information about the bmon utility. 
