.\" @(#)deu.1 11/21/19
.\" Copyright 2019 Actian Corporation
.\" All Rights Reserved Worldwide
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH deu 1 "2019"

.SH NAME
deu \- Zen Data Export Utility

.SH SYNOPSIS
\fBdeu\fR \fIDatabaseName SelectFile ResultsFile\fR
.P
[\fB\-c\fR] [\fB\-h\fR] [\fB\-o\fR] [\fB\-e\fR \fIFileEncoding\fR]
.P
[\fB\-f\fR \fIFieldDelim\fR] [\fB\-l\fR \fILogFile\fR] [\fB\-n\fR \fIPortNumber\fR] 
.P
[\fB\-s\fR \fIServerName\fR] [\fB\-u\fR \fILoginId\fR \fB\-p\fR \fIPassword\fR]

.SH DESCRIPTION
.B deu
is used to export data by running a SQL statement from a command file.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
\fIDatabaseName\fR
This may be a database name or a server DSN.

.TP 
\fISelectFile\fR
File containing the SQL SELECT command to execute.

.TP 
\fIResultsFile\fR
Contains the resulting dataset from executing \fISelectFile.

.TP 
\fB-c\fR
Write column names in first row.

.TP 
\fB-h\fR
This help screen.

.TP 
\fB-o\fR
Overwrite \fIResultsFile\fR if it exists.

.TP 
\fB-e\fR \fIFileEncoding\fR
e.g. Windows-1252, Big5, EUC_JP, Shift_JIS, SJIS, UTF-8, UTF-8-BOM, UTF-16BE, UTF-16BE-BOM, UTF-16LE, UTF-16LE-BOM (default windows-1252).

.TP 
\fB-f\fR \fIFieldDelim\fR
Field delimiter character (default ,)

.TP 
\fB-l\fR \fILogFile\fR
Log output to file (default stdout).
 
.TP 
\fB-n\fR \fIPortNumber\fR
TCP port where SQL engine is listening (default 1583).
 
.TP 
\fB-s\fR \fIServerName\fR
Server where database is defined (default local machine).
 
.TP 
\fB-u\fR \fILoginId\fR
Login ID of the database user.
 
.TP 
\fB-p\fR \fIPassword\fR
Password of the database user.
 
.P
.SH EXAMPLE
\fBdeu\fR DEMODATA select.sql datafile.dat -c -l log.txt

.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.I SQL Engine Reference
for more information about supported SQL syntax.  

