.\" @(#)psregedit.1 03/04/30
.\" Copyright 2019 Actian Corporation
.\" All Rights Reserved Worldwide
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH psregedit 1 "2019"
.SH NAME
psregedit \- Display or edit the Zen registry. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B psregedit 
.IP
.B \-key \fIKEYNAME\fR [ \-r ]
.IP
.B \-key \fIKEYNAME\fR \-value \fIVALUENAME\fR
.IP
.B \-set \-key \fIKEYNAME\fR [\-type \fITYPE\fR] \fIVALUE\fR
.IP
.B \-set \-key \fiKEYNAME\fR \-value \fIVALUENAME\fR [\-type \fITYPE\fR] \fIVALUE\fR
.IP
.B \-delete \-key \fiKEYNAME\fR
.IP
.B \-delete \-key \fiKEYNAME\fR \-value \fIVALUENAME\fR
.IP
.B \-export \-key \fiKEYNAME\fR [\-file \fIFILENAME\fR]
.IP
.B \-import [\-file \fIFILENAME\fR]
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B psregedit
is used to manage the Zen Registry. You must be root user or a member of the group zen-data to make changes to the Zen Registry.
.P
For all options, the variables are defined as follows:
.TP
.B KEYNAME
PS_HKEY\eSubkey
.TP
.B PS_HKEY
{PS_HKEY_CONFIG | PS_HKEY_CONFIG_64 | PS_HKEY_CLASSES | PS_HKEY_CLASSES_64 | PS_HKEY_USER}
.TP
Subkey is a subordinate key under a major key.
.TP
.B VALUENAME
the name assigned to the Registry value or \'default\'
.TP
.B VALUE
the value assigned to VALUENAME
.TP
.B TYPE
{PS_REG_STR | PS_REG_UINT32 | PS_REG_UINT64}
.B FILENAME
the name of a file, which may also include a path
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-key 
Get the key value. If \-value is not specified, then the entire key contents 
are displayed. To view all subkeys, specify \-r (for recursive).
.TP 
.B \-set \-key 
Set the key value. If \-value is not specified, the default value will be set.
\fIVALUE\fR must be appropriate to the \fITYPE\fR specified. \fBPS_REG_STR\fR
is assumed if \-type is not specified. You must be root user or a member of 
the group \fBzen-data\fR to set keys.
.TP
.B \-delete \-key 
Delete the specified key or value. If \-value is not specified, then the entire key
and all subkeys will be deleted. You must be root user or a member of the
group \fBzen-data\fR to delete keys.
.TP
.B \-export \-key 
Export the given key, including all values and subkeys to standard output or the 
named file.
.TP
.B \-import [\-file \fIFILENAME\fR] 
Import keys and values from either the standard input or the named file. 
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.I User's Guide
for more information about the \fBpsregedit\fR utility. 


