.\" @(#)pvdbpass.1 03/07/08
.\" Copyright 2019 Actian Corporation
.\" All Rights Reserved Worldwide
.TH pvdbpass 1 "2019"
.SH NAME
pvdbpass \- Zen database password utility. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pvdbpass \fIdatabase username [\-server servername] [\-port number]\fR
.P
.B pvdbpass \fIdatabase username password newpassword [\-server servername] [\-port number]\fR
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvdbpass
allows users to change their passwords for secure databases without administrator intervention. 
.SH PARAMETERS
.TP 
.B database 
Database in which the user name is defined (this can be a database name or a server DSN).
.TP
.B username
The user whose password will be changed. 
.TP 
.B password 
The current password for the user. You must provide the original password in order to modify it. 
You can either provide the password as a parameter or omit it and be prompted.
.TP
.B newpassword 
The new password for the user. The password is subject to the limitations specified in the 
\fISQL Engine Reference\fR.  See the \fISET PASSWORD\fR syntax.
.P 
.B Note:
If the \fBnew\fR password begins with a nonalphabetic character, the password must be 
enclosed in single quotes. If the existing password begins with a nonalphabetic character, 
do not enclose it in single quotes (see examples).

.TP 
.B servername 
Optional. Server name on which the database is defined. If you do not specify this option, the local machine is assumed. 
.TP 
.B port 
Optional. TCP port on which the SQL engine running on servername is listening. 
If you do not specify this option, the default port 1583 is assumed. 
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
To change the Master user password and be prompted:
.P
.B pvdbpass demodata Master
.P
To change an existing password to one that does not start with an alphabetic character (use single quotes):
.P
.B pvdbpass demodata Joe oldpassword '123'
.P
To change a password on a remote server:
.P
.B pvdbpass demodata Joe oldpass newpass -server finance1
.SH SEE ALSO
.I User's Guide
for more information about the pvdbpass utility. 


