.\" @(#)pvnetpass.1 03/04/15
.\" Copyright 2019 Actian Corporation
.\" All Rights Reserved Worldwide
.\" Portions Copyright (c) 1995, Sun Microsystems, Inc.
.\" All Rights Reserved
.TH pvnetpass 1 "2019"
.SH NAME
pvnetpass \- Zen Network Password Utility. 
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B pvnetpass 
[ \fB\-g\fR ]
.B {\-a
|
.B \-r
|
.B \-m} 
server
[
.B \-u
user
] [
.B \-p
pwd ]
.P
.B pvnetpass \-d
.P
.SH DESCRIPTION
.B pvnetpass
is used to manage user IDs and passwords for remote servers to which your Linux or OS X client connects.
When trying to connect to a server, the client looks up the server name in the registry and uses
the user name and password for that server. 
.P
If you have both a global and a user entry for the same server, the user entry overrides the global.
The user name should include the full user context. For example, in a Windows environment with
domain names, specify the user as
DOMAIN\e\e\e\euser.
Enter two backslashes for the user name because the first one is an escape character. In NetWare, 
specify \fBuser.context\fR.
In Linux and OS X, use the user account name and the full machine DNS name. For example, \fBmymachine.mydomain\fR.
.P
The pvnetpass utility can also be used by Windows clients to change their stored credentials that were
saved when using the security login dialog.
.P
You must be the root user or a member of the group zen-data to set global entries (with -g).
.SH OPTIONS
.TP 
.B \-a 
Adds a server entry for a user specified by the \-u parameter. If no user is specified, current user is assumed.  
.TP
.B \-g
Manipulates default settings for all users. Settings created with \-g can be overridden by individual users.
.TP 
.B \-r 
Removes a server entry for a user specified by the \-u parameter. If no user is specified, current user is assumed.
.TP
.B \-m 
Modifies a server entry for a user specified by the \-u parameter. If no user is specified, current user is assumed.
.TP
.B \-d 
Displays the list of configured servers.  The configured servers will display in two groups that are
separated by a dashed line. The ones above the dashed line are global entries and are only viewable by
administrators who are a member of group zen-data. The ones below the line are the current user's entries.
If you have a global and a user entry for the same server, the user's entry overrides the global.
.TP
.B server
Server to which you want to add a connection entry.  Server can be '*' (include the single quotes) to set the default server entry information.
This default entry is used when there is no user entry for the server.
.P
.SH EXAMPLES
.P
From current user to all servers (overrides -g)
.P
pvnetpass -a '*' -p password
.P
From current user to one server 'myserver' (overrides -g)
.P
pvnetpass -a myserver -p password
.P
From all users (-g)  to one server 'myserver' using credentials joe:password
.P
pvnetpass -g -a myserver -u joe -p password
.P
From all users (-g)  to all servers ('*'), use default credentials joe:password
.P
pvnetpass -g -a '*' -u joe -p password
.P
.SH SEE ALSO
.I User's Guide
for more information about the pvnetpass utility. 


